Name of Student:  Mike Pingel

Name of Project: Chaos Game Visualizer

Project's Purpose or Goal:  Create an application that generates a fractal using the chaos game method. The chaos game method is placing a set number of points to create the vertices of a shape in 2D space. Another point will be created wherever the user chooses. From that point, more points are plotted based on the midpoint between the location of the last point and a randomly chosen vertex from the initially created shape. After enough points are plotted, a fractal appears and the fractal varies based on initial inputs and rules. I'd like to create an application where a user can play with the initial inputs/rules and explore the variations in outputs.

List the absolute minimum features the project requires to meet this purpose or goal:

Utilizes HTML canvas to plot the points
Has 3 points forming a triangle
Has a plotter point leaving a trail of points for each iteration

What tools, frameworks, libraries, APIs, modules and/or other resources (whatever is specific to your track, and your language) will you use to create this MVP? List them all here. Be specific.

HTML to utilize canvas
JavaScript to write the functions of the project
C# if there is time to explore that area

If you finish developing the minimum viable product (MVP) with time to spare, what will you work on next? Describe these features here: Be specific.

User input to place their own points to create the original shape
User defined rules to tweak the placement of the next point along the line between the last point and the random vertex
Find shapes and rules that create interesting fractals for demonstration purposes
(big stretch goal) Apply the same functions to unity in 3D and see what the chaos game method can create in 3D space

What additional tools, frameworks, libraries, APIs, or other resources will these additional features require?

Canvas - This hasn't even been mentioned in class, there are a lot of tutorials online for creating games utilizing JavaScript and canvas, I think these could be followed to create this application.
Unity - If I have time or maybe after the end of the course, I'd like to explore what happens in 3D with the same process.

Is there anything else you'd like your instructor to know?

I was worried this might be too easy to explore as a capstone because the functions that are performed are relatively simple, just place a point between 2 other points then repeat. However, I think there is a huge learning opportunity in exploring HTML canvas and what it is capable of. If even canvas is too easy to figure out, I would like to move on to Unity and explore the 3D side of the same thing.



This video is what created this idea, I would like to recreate the software they're using to show the fractal and incorporate my own tweaks.

https://youtu.be/kbKtFN71Lfs